GraphQL API (#785)
graphprotocol/docs: website/pages/en/querying/graphql-api.mdx

title: GraphQL API
---

Learn about the GraphQL Query API used in The Graph.

## What is GraphQL?

> [GraphQL](https://graphql.org/learn/) is the query language for APIs and a runtime for executing those queries with your existing data. The Graph uses GraphQL to query subgraphs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[GraphQL](https://graphql.org/learn/) is a query language for APIs and a runtime for executing those queries with your existing data. The Graph uses GraphQL to query subgraphs.
```

> - To understand the larger role that GraphQL plays, review [developing](/network/developing/) and [creating a subgraph](/developing/creating-a-subgraph/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand the larger role that GraphQL plays, review [developing](/network/developing/) and [creating a subgraph](/developing/creating-a-subgraph/).
```

## Queries with GraphQL

> In your subgraph schema you define types called `Entities`. For each `Entity` type, an `entity` and `entities` fields will be generated on the top-level `Query` type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your subgraph schema you define types called `Entities`. For each `Entity` type, `entity` and `entities` fields will be generated on the top-level `Query` type.
```

> In your subgraph schema you define types called `Entities`. For each `Entity` type, an `entity` and `entities` field will be generated on the top-level `Query` type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In your subgraph schema you define types called `Entities`. For each `Entity` type, `entity` and `entities` fields will be generated on the top-level `Query` type.
```

### Pagination

When querying a collection, it's best to:

- Use the `first` parameter to paginate from the beginning of the collection.

>   - The default sort order is by `ID` in ascending alphanumeric order, **not** by creation time.

Reviewer: I would move this bullet point to the "Sorting" section above.

Reviewer: Not sure if you disagree with this (as it's marked as resolved but it's still here), but just wanted to flag it again just in case. Sorting is only related to pagination in that it changes which results will appear on which page, but there's a section dedicated to Sorting on this page so it really feels like it belongs there.

Reviewer: 🤷‍♂️

> - Use The `skip` parameter to skip entities and paginate. e.g. `first:100` shows the first 100 entities and `first:100, skip:100` shows the next 100 entities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `skip` parameter to skip entities and paginate. For instance, `first: 100` shows the first 100 entities and `first: 100, skip: 100` shows the next 100 entities.
```

#### Example using `first` and `id_ge`

> If a client needs to retrieve a large number of entities, it's best to base queries on an attribute and filter by that attribute. For example, a client could retrieve a large number of tokens using this query:

Reviewer: I feel like we lose some information here, why is it best? Because it's more performant.

#### Example for block filtering

> You can also filter entities by the `_change_block(number_gte: Int)`, which filters entities that were updated in or after the specified block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also filter entities that were updated in or after a specific block with `_change_block(number_gte: Int)`.
```

You can query the state of your entities not just for the latest block, which is the default, but also for an arbitrary block in the past. The block at which a query should happen can be specified either by its block number or its block hash by including a `block` argument in the toplevel fields of queries.

> - The result of such a query will not change over time, i.e., querying at a certain past block will return the same result no matter when it is executed, with the exception that if you query at a block very close to the head of the chain, the result might change if that block turns out to **not** be on the main chain and the chain gets reorganized. Once a block can be considered final, the result of the query will not change.

Reviewer: Do you just happen to like the arrow icon that unordered list items have? :P I don't see how this is semantically a list.

## Schema

> The schema of your dataSources, i.e. the entity types, values, and relationships that are available to query, are defined through the [GraphQL Interface Definition Langauge (IDL)](https://facebook.github.io/graphql/draft/#sec-Type-System).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The schema of your `dataSources`, i.e. the entity types, values, and relationships that are available to query, are defined through the [GraphQL Interface Definition Langauge (IDL)](https://facebook.github.io/graphql/draft/#sec-Type-System).
```

> The schema of your `data source`, i.e. the entity types, values, and relationships that are available to query, are defined through the [GraphQL Interface Definition Langauge (IDL)](https://facebook.github.io/graphql/draft/#sec-Type-System).

Reviewer: Not sure why "data source" is inline code here – looks like the field in the manifest is spelled `dataSources`. I would keep it as regular text I think, or maybe change it to `dataSource` but even that feels a bit wrong since the actual field is plural.

## Schema

> The schema of your `data source`, which is the entity types, values, and relationships that are available to query, are defined through the [GraphQL Interface Definition Langauge (IDL)](https://facebook.github.io/graphql/draft/#sec-Type-System).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The schema of your `dataSource`, i.e. the entity types, values, and relationships that are available to query, are defined through the [GraphQL Interface Definition Langauge (IDL)](https://facebook.github.io/graphql/draft/#sec-Type-System).
```

> GraphQL schemas generally define root types for `queries`, `subscriptions` and `mutations`. The Graph only supports `queries`. The root `Query` type for your subgraph is automatically generated from the GraphQL schema that's included in your [subgraph manifest](/developing/creating-a-subgraph/#components-of-a-subgraph).

Reviewer: Nice, good idea to create a link here.

> > **Note:** Our API does not expose mutations because developers are expected to issue transactions directly against the underlying blockchain from their applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: Our API does not expose mutations because developers are expected to issue transactions directly against the underlying blockchain from their applications.
```
